I am not an IT specialist, but I am good at "Tech Stuff." Want to know my secret?

A few years ago, I discovered the biggest secret of techie people. By "Techie," people, I mean the folks who use words like defrag and reboot. People who talk about IP addresses and go on rants about Big Data. You might be thinking, I'm not a "Techie" person, what's that got to do with me? Well, to you, I'll say, this secret is more extensive than those techy people. It just so happens to trickle down to us regular people. People who are unaware that a USB c port is a thing. People who mostly just use technology to connect to social media. Even people who yank out their flash drive without ejecting them first. This secret is for all of us.

The secret is Google. 

You can use Google, Firefox, Safari, or Bing. Even Duckduckgo will do. The key is reaching out and sorting through the plethora of resources that are out there. Top professionals and non-specialists alike google things when they are unsure how to do something or can't quite remember every step of a process. The main difference between the two, in my opinion, is the specificity of the question asked. a Novic will goggle how to code. A pro would google How to use C# with unity for 2d gaming. It is like the difference between googling how to learn a foreign language and googling French words related to baking. There is a lot of information out there, so it pays to be specific. 

An excellent way to get more specific is to create a Tech Development plan (link to development plan), its like a regular development plan, but for tech goals. First, you have to figure out what you want to do with code. If you want to create a database to store information you collect on daily hikes, you would need to know something different than someone who wants to make a mobile app game about puppies. There may be some overlap, but there would not be a one fits all solution. From that point you can start to make more specific google searches.  

For example, let's say we want to create a database to store information collected on daily hikes. We want to say the day of the hike using a month day and year. We want to say what the weather was like, weather it was sunny, cloudy, rainy, hot, or cold. We want to log any new nature thing we saw like a flower or a bug as well. And we want to write down what mood the hike left us in, like happy or frustrated or tired. So let's make a specific google search. instead of searching how to make a database which will lead us to instructions and specific lines of code, let's ask what coding language is used to create databases. From this search you will see some things mentioned over and over, SQL, C, C++, C#, Developer, MySQL, oracle, Javascript. It can and probably will be a little overwhelming and a lot of information that you don't understand quite yet. But this is where the fun starts. Now we can ask even more specific questions. What is a Database? What is SQL, How does SQL work with C++. For all your questions, jot down bits of the answers you get that you don't understand. Read everything you can find. Read articles, wiki pages, comments in forums (there are a lot of forums answering tech questions with very knowledgeable people who often link resources) everywhere. 

Once you have an idea of what kinds of things you need to know in order to make that daily hikes database make a list. write out everything you need to know, you may end up with a sizeable list, but that's ok. Next decided if I could only do 1/4th of a teaspoon amount of something that would make me feel like I can accomplish my big daily hikes database plan, what would it be? I would want to start off by weighing the pros and cons of all the databases out there and deciding which one to learn first. Then you can make a new plan to accomplish that goal. Be sure to make sure your plan is  SMART = Specific, Measureable, Attainable, Relevant, and Time-based. Once you finish your first goal, you can start on your next one, 1/3rd of a teaspoons amount of something that would add to that last teaspoon and make you feel like you can accomplish your platter sized goal. 

Now that you know the secret, get out there and start coding. If you want some company check out infinity Pi, the coding club at our northeast branch. Happy coding, and remember Keep calm & Save often.
